Following sent to ActiveState 8/30/2005

Code tab:  I don't think I should have to have an editor open to see the symbols 
in my project.  I know why it works the way it does, but it would be nice to
have Komodo be smart enough to either scan the project's files to obtain, or 
keep a cache of, the symbols in the files that make up the project.  That would
allow me to "forget" which physical file a given class is defined in, for example.

I have full smart indenting turned on. I have two consecutive lines of code, and
I <end> to the first line, and hit enter to add a blank line. The next line
indents by four spaces. My indention level is set to two spaces. It shouldn't
have indented anyway, but why by four instead of two?

Kind of like the last one: if I'm sitting at column zero of a line with indented
text and hit enter, the indentation increases. This is not what I expect.  I just
expect to get a newline above the line that I'm sitting on - no change in
indentation.

If I have the editor set to use spaces, and I hit backspace to go backwards, I
expect to go backwards one space at a time, not the tab width (maybe that's just
me).

The first command-option-S to 'save all' doesn't work.  Once I've used the menu to
do it once, then it starts working.  'Save All...' should not have an ellipsis
(it doesn't ask for more from the user).


Following sent to ActiveState 8/13/2005

It's slow. Horribly slow on my G3 iBook (maybe that's a torture test, though).
Just slow on my dual-867 PowerMac, with 1G RAM.

It's a total memory hog. After working in Komodo for a couple hours on a 10 file (500
line) ruby project, and having done a couple of CVS check-ins, etc, the
footprint is 500M of real memory and 1G of virtual (in round numbers). That's a
LOT for the very limited (in ruby, anyway) functionality of this tool.

Should be a way to commit all the files inthe project to SCC, rather than having
to commit single files. If there *is* a way to do this, it should be more
obvious.

Ruby: would be awfully nice for the editor to create a properly indented "end"
for a matching "def" or "class" when writing new ruby methods and classes. Seems
like a minimum requirement for an IDE you'd pay for.

If I'm on a (ruby) classname, I should be able to jump directly to the class
definition. I mean, the IDE is smart enough to figure out what classes are in
the system and render them in the code tab. Why isn't it smart enough to let me
hit (say) command-B and jump straight to the definition of the class under my
cursor. Once I've looked at the class definition, I should be able to hit a key
combination and go back to the place I searched from (see separate entry for
more). Instead the "find symbol" command seems to be just a stupid find command.

A way to return to previous locations in the code would be nice. A possible way
is to keep track of major "context shifts", for example, if I do a search and
land in a different file, I'd love to be able to hit Command-Option-left-arrow
to return from where I started the search.

Maybe I need to play with settings, but the "smart" indent doesn't work very
well in my environment. "end" always ends up indented with method or class
statements. Revisited: actually, I'll just say that the autoindenting feature is
MUCH more annoying than it is helpful. I think I'm going to turn it off
completely - at least then it will be a stupid person in control, rather than a
totally insane and evil "smart" indenter.

Code selection via the mouse is unreliable. Sometimes it looks as though no
selection has been made, and it takes several tries.

Code intelligence for ruby is badly needed!

Should be able to pretty-print to the indentation scheme set up in preferences.
Tabifier is of little use, if you don't like tabs!

When I add a new file via the Komodo interface, that file should become part of
the project (or I should be asked if I want to add it).

Find should remember the settings I used last time. For example, if I specified
global scope in the last search, that's what it should default to in this one.

If I do a search/replace with global scope, and decide to undo, the undo should
(optionally, maybe) apply to the global scope as well.

Somehow, Komodo occasionally forgets to put scrollbars on edit windows. I
believe it may have to do with resizing the window or changing monitors. As I'm
editing this, I can't see about the first 10 characters, even if I use the mouse
to select to the left margin. Very annoying. This is persistent, even if I close
the file and open it back up.
